# finance
## This was the last task in [Harvard_CS50](https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/2022/) before the final project.
'finance' is a Flask web application which simulates managing portfolios of stocks by quering [IEX](https://iextrading.com/developer/)-api for stocks' prices.
### Usage
This app allows users to register for an account (login and logout have already worked). When logged in users may see their current portfolio. It is an HTML table with every row summarizing number of shares of separate holding along with its current price and total cost of shares beeing hold. New users will see empty table. Logged in users can quote stocks (i.e. look up a stocks' current price), 'buy' and 'sell' stocks (quoted since when registered each user provided Total 10000 points which are not real money and stocks beeing bought or sold are virtual). Any way quoted prices remain actual. Logged in users can also see transactions history (HTML table with detailed information of every 'buy' and every 'sell').
### Specification
Explaination what each of the files contains and does.
#### register.html
Following 'Register' link in the top right corner of the 'Log in' page redirects user to the 'Register' page. A new user inputs 'Username', 'Password' and 'Password confirmation'. If 'Password confirmation' and 'Password' fields are not epty and coincide, and if 'Username' is not empty and is unique for the site the new User will be logged in and redirected to the main (index) page. Otherwise the new User will recieve warning.
#### index.html
This page represents portfolio table. It is an HTML table. Every row holds data for single stock in the columns: 'Symbol', 'Name', 'Price', 'Price bought' and summarizes number of shares hold in the column 'Shares' as well as total cost of the stock in the column 'Total'. Column 'Price' represents current price of the stock on the moment the page was updated or the last transaction with this stock commited. Column 'Price bought' shows price of the stock the last time when it was bought. Every row also holds 'buy' and 'sell' buttons as well as input field named 'trn_shares' to specify number of shares of current symbol beeing 'sold' or additionally 'bought'. If user has enough cash-points when buying or enough shares hold when selling than transaction will be commited, current stock price will be updated again right before commiting transaction and will be shown in the 'Price' column as well as total cost of shares left for current stock in the 'Total' column. Total cost of the whole portfolio and total cash left in the bottom of the table will be updated as well. Otherwise, if something went wrong user will recieve warning. More on 'buying' and 'selling' later in this text.
#### quote.html
This page allows a user to query stock's current price. If symbol input was correct, after 'Quote' button clicked a user will recieve a response beneath the 'Quote' button with the name of the company and stock's current price and button 'Buy' embedded. The 'Buy' button redirects a user to the 'Buy' page with current symbol as default for 'Symbol' input. When quoting empty or incorrect symbol a user will recieve warning.
#### buy.html
This page allows a user to 'buy' stocks. Arbitrary number of shares of single symbol at a time. If the user doesn't have enough cash for the number of shares at the current price a 'purchase' won't be completed. For incorrect or empty symbol, for nonpositive noninteger number of shares a user will recieve warning. If a 'purchase' was successful the user will be redirected to the main (portfolio) page, stocks' prices and balance will be updated.
#### sell.html
This page allows a user to 'sell' available shares of a stock (available: those which a user owns and can see on the portfolio page). A select menu holds available stocks' symbols. If the user doesn't have so many shares or somehow empty or incorrect symbol a user will recieve warning. After shares have been 'sold' successfuly the user will be redirected to the main (portfolio) page, stocks' prices and balance will be updated.
#### history.html
This page represents history table. This HTML table summarizes all of a user's transactions from the first to the last one. Every row holds data for single transaction in the columns: 'Symbol', 'Shares', 'Price', 'Transacted'. Positive number of shares means they were 'bought', it is a 'purchase'-type of transaction. Negative number of shares means they were 'sold', it is a 'sale'-type of transaction. 'Price' field holds 'sale' or 'purchase' price depending on type of transaction. 'Transacted' field holds the date and time at which the transaction occured.
#### What Else Could Be Done
IEX-api allows to make price requests for several stocks simultaneously. Such feature could be implemented for Quote, Buy and Sell pages. Nevertheless such update would expect considerable amount of work to provide for '/sell' and for '/buy' routes to support single-symbol and multi-symbol requests. Right now everywhere through this app only single-symbol requests are implemented.

I also had an idea of implementing list of all stocks represented on the market and some kind of surfing through this list. You could see 'disabled' buttons on the 'Quote' page and on the top screen menu. But I didn't find lightweight solution till now.